IoT Metrics Service (#23)
helium/helium-release-proposals: releases/20250513-core-devs.md

In an effort to unify messaging between the IoT and Mobile networks, sourcing a more accurate count of daily active devices will allow the IoT Network to stand side-by-side with the Mobile network in stats reflecting the impact of the Helium Network globally.

#### Implementation

The Helium Packet Router (HPR) is a set of globally distributed servers tasked with handling this traffic. It essentially acts as a bridge between Hotspots and the LoRaWAN Network Servers (LNS) where those devices are managed. The metrics service will operate alongside HPRs using a gRPC connection.

The metrics service will count unique session keys that handle packets, validating liveliness of session keys onboarded to OUIs via the Config Service. For operators not leveraging the Session Key Filter (SKF), the DevAddr of the device will be used to interpret the device count.

> It is important to note that these processes will not reveal an absolute number of active devices and are likely to underrepresent total active devices.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that these processes will not reveal an absolute number of active devices and are likely to under-represent total active devices.  
```

> Some cases where this service will underrepresent active devices:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some cases where this service will under-represent active devices:
```
